# Bikesharing Challenge
[link to dashboard](https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/dilinigeer.duolikun/viz/Deliverable3stories/Deliverable3)

## Overview
In this NYC City Bike project, we wanted to know bike users by age, by gender, by weekdays vs. weekend, and by different time of the day. For this purpose, we created different worksheets in Tableau where we visualized different types of graphs. Client wanted to use this New York City August 2019 data to have a bike sharing business proposal for Des Moines. Even though they are two completely different cities with Des Moines having ~200k population while NYC with 6million population, we can have an idea based of what we created here.

## Results
We have several visualizations for the purpose of this project. 1) We analyzed the checkout times by users. [checkout times for users](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Deliverable%202-1.png) We selected 0,1,2 hours for this graph and graph clearly shows that there are no users with more than 60 minutes in August 2019. We know that people rode bikes for short distances or for quick trips.  2) Next, we added gender to the same graph. Still no trips for more than 60 minutes, but surprisingly, a big portion of this riders are male, a small share of riders are female, and a small percentage of these riders decided not to share their gender. [checkout times by Gender](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Deliverable%202-2.png) 3) [Trips for Weekday by Each Hour](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Deliverable%202-3.png) At first glance, this heatmap shows a dark shaded square, this is because most of the people use these bikes during the peak hours on weekdays 6AM-10AM and 4PM-9PM, and it's the opposite on weekends, peak hours are from 10AM-7PM. We can conclude that people ride bikes for getting to work and home on weekdays and for fun on weekends. 4) Same conclusion on this graph, but it only applied to male. As we can see on this one, females barely use these bikes regardless of the time of the day. Trips during peak hours and other hours are about the same for females, but significantly different for male riders. [Trips for Weekday by Each Hour by Gender](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Deliverable%202-4.png) 5) This map provides similar information as third and fourth maps, but this time we separated customers and subscribers who use bikes on a regular basis or signed up for a long-term usage. This tells us that we definitely have way more male subscribers compare to female, also we have equal share of male, female and other customers. As we can see we have just one color for customers section.  [!User Trips by Gender by Weekday](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Deliverable%202-5.png) 

## Summary
We can say that number of CitiBike users in New York City is pretty high especially in the city center area. [Top Starting Locations](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Top%20Starting%20Locations.png) From the graph we created in this module, a big portion of these bike riders start from Manhattan according to this map while a small portion start riding from elsewhere in the city. This is most likely due to the population in this area as well as the market demand for the bikes since it's world's one the busiest and major financial, commercial centers. We have to take this into consideration when we use this data on Des Moines since it's a lot different over there. Also, we can easily utilize this map when it comes to maintaining these bikes. For example, the darker the color is more the bike was shared in the past or more trips it had in the past. This means the bike is due for a repair. We can easily spot these bikes by looking at their bikeID. When it's white or ligh color, that means we don't need to worry about the bike. [Bikes Due for Repair](https://github.com/dilnigar1007/bikesharing/blob/main/Bikes%20Due%20for%20Repair.png)
